The State of AI Infrastructure at Scale 2024Unveiling Future Landscapes, Key Insights, and Business Benchmarks in partnership withandPresented byCopyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.

The Artificial Intelligence (AI) sector has experienced an unprecedented surge in recent years. As the applications and use cases of Generative AI expand and more companies shift from research and evaluation to production, we expect that the growing need for robust infrastructure and computational capabilities will drive hyper market demand.According to new research published by Allied Market Research and reported by CIO ML platforms that can support scale while optimizing their compute utilization. 1News, the trajectory of the Global AI Infrastructure Market reflects this burgeoning demand. In fact, the report notes that the AI infrastructure market was valued at $23.5 To deliver that clarity, ClearML, along with the AI Infrastructure Alliance and FuriosaAI, billion in 2021 and is estimated to soar to an astounding $309.4 billion by 2031, growing at conducted a global AI Infrastructure research survey of AI/ML and technology leaders at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 29.8% from 2022 to 2031.1,000 companies across multiple geographies (North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific) and various company sizes: we wanted to explore and map out new market trends and One of the primary drivers of growth in the AI infrastructure market is the realization insights after the first year of preliminary Generative AI mainstream adoption. among enterprises of how AI can elevate their operational efficiency and enhance productivity, as well as expand revenue and reduce costs through the automation and One thing is clear: scalable AI infrastructure is crucial for global businesses commercializing orchestration of AI/ML workflows.AI, as it ensures that their AI systems can handle growing computational demands and AI workloads. That’s why ClearML recently announced newly enhanced orchestration There is a wide array of new AI infrastructure tools, leaving prospective buyers grappling and scheduling capabilities along with GPU Partioning and MiG capabilities driving GPU with the challenge of sorting through their critical AI infrastructure business needs maximal utilization and an enterprise-grade unified platform offering state-of-the-art for scaling AI into production. That may be why prior research conducted in 2023 LLMs called ClearGPT. Meanwhile, FuriosaAI offers its first-gen NPU WARBOY and next-gen indicated that only 5-10% of enterprises had started to move Gen AI into production. As LLM-optimized NPU with High Bandwidth Memory 3 (HBM3) for cutting-edge distributed organizations navigate the AI infrastructure market, they are actively seeking clarity on AI/inference.1 - https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/ai-infrastructure-market-expected-achieve-usd-3094-billion-booming-2ri1f/Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.2

Both companies provide solutions that allow organizations to develop and host LLMs in a enterprise AI transformation in 2024. Based on these recent surveys, industry metrics, and cost-efficient and performant way tailored to the organization’s internal data and running data from the AI Infrastructure Alliance, we expect that compute infrastructure, especially securely on their network to power Enterprise AI transformation. As global startups that AI chips, will continue to be in high demand as Generative AI and the number of Large believe in providing companies with information that enables hardware awareness and Language Models (LLMs) increase in production and at scale. Optimizing a company’s clarity into the AI/ML space, we partnered with the AI Infrastructure Alliance (AIIA), a current tech stack to maximize existing compute resources is an efficient way to get more nonprofit whose mission is to help the AI/ML community make informed decisions about for less, but AI leaders and executives need to look ahead at future-proof technology that their AI infrastructure decisions.is flexible and scalable to support future AI/ML compute needs. Together, we looked at how AI and technology leaders are approaching the build of their When thinking about AI/ML in production, model training, where models are trained on AI infrastructure, the key challenges and considerations they face, and how they rank a test data set and learn how to make sense of data, is just one part of a more holistic priorities when evaluating AI infrastructure solutions against their current needs and workflow. Inference is a key part of moving AI into production. Inference involves taking business use cases.a trained machine learning (ML) model and using it to make real-time predictions or to solve tasks. It powers use cases across a multitude of industries, including health care, This survey is ClearML’s third global AI research survey, following two previous surveys automotive, and telecommunications. With the demand for Large Language Model (LLM)-that covered generative AI adoption and hidden costs, challenges, and the TCO of Gen AI powered products, inference can power real-time answers to enterprise end users.adoption in the enterprise. In the first survey, 1,000 executives and tech leaders (CTOs, VPs of AI, Chief Data and Analytics Officers, and others) from Fortune 1000 companies In this report, we share our global AI Infrastructure survey results, including 1) reported wasted opportunities and missed financial goals as a result of poor AI/ML respondents’ compute infrastructure growth plans, 2) current scheduling and compute 1operationalization or commercialization, some incurring losses of more than $200 solutions experience, and 3) model and AI framework use and plans for 2024. Read on to 2million. dive into key findings!In our second survey, when asked about key Generative AI cost drivers, the top response was tools, systems, and infrastructure integration costs, followed by GPU and compute 3costs of model development and training. Despite these challenges, 56.8% of companies surveyed expected double-digit increases to revenues from AI/ML investments and 1 - Page 10 and/or 14 of AIIA and ClearML, Enterprise Generative AI Adoption: C-Level Key Considerations, Challenges, and Strategies for Unleashing AI at Scale - https://go.clear.ml/new-research-report-on-enterprise-generative-ai-adoption2 - Page 16 of AIIA and ClearML, IBID.3 - Page 13 of AIIA and ClearML, The Hidden Costs, Challenges, and Total Cost of Ownership of Generative AI Adoption in the Enterprise - https://go.clear.ml/the_hidden_costs_challenges_and_tco_of_gen_ai_adoptionCopyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.3

KEY FINDINGSsatisfied with their job scheduling tools, and report that productivity would 196% of companies plan to expand their AI compute dramatically increase if real-time compute was self-served by data science capacity and investment with availability, cost, and and machine learning (DSML) team members. infrastructure challenges weighing on their minds.74% of respondents see value in having compute and scheduling Nearly all respondents (96%) plan to expand their AI compute functionality as part of a single, unified AI/ML platform (instead of cobbling infrastructure, with 40% considering more on-premise and 60% considering together an AI infrastructure tech stack of stand-alone point solutions), but more cloud, and they are looking for flexibility and speed. The top concern only 19% of respondents actually have a scheduling tool that supports the for cloud compute is wastage and idle costs. ability to view and manage jobs within queues and effectively optimize GPU utilization. When asked about challenges in scaling AI for 2024, compute limitations (availability and cost) topped the list, followed by infrastructure issues. Respondents reported they have varying levels of scheduling functionality Respondents felt they lacked automation or did not have the right systems and features, leading with quota management (56%), and followed by in place.Dynamic Multi-instance GPUs/GPU partioning (42%), and the creation of node pools (38%). The biggest concern for deploying generative AI was moving too fast and missing important considerations (e.g. prioritizing the wrong business use 65% of companies surveyed use a vendor-specific solution or cloud service cases). The second-ranked concern was moving too slowly due to a lack of provider for managing and scheduling their AI/ML jobs. 25% of respondents ability to execute.use Slurm or another open source tool, and 9% use Kubernetes alone, which does not support scheduling capabilities. 74% of respondents report feeling dissatisfied or only somewhat satisfied with their current scheduling tool.2 A staggering 74% of companies are dissatisfied with their current job scheduling tools and face resource The ability for DSML practitioners to self-serve compute resources allocation constraints regularly, while limited on-independently and manage job scheduling hovers between 22-27%. However, 93% of survey respondents believe that their AI team productivity demand and self-serve access to GPU compute inhibits would substantially increase if real-time compute resources could be self-productivity.served easily by anyone who needed it.Job scheduling capabilities vary, and executives are generally not Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.4

orchestration and scheduling technology to maximize their existing compute 3The key buying factor for inference solutions is cost.infrastructure.  To address GPU scarcity, approximately 52% of respondents reported When asked about peak periods for GPU usage, 15% of respondents report actively looking for cost-effective alternatives to GPUs for inference in 2024 that less than 50% of their available and purchased GPUs are in use. 53% as compared to 27% for training, signaling a shift in AI hardware usage. Yet, believe 51-70% of GPU resources are utilized, and just 25% believe their GPU one-fifth of respondents (20%) reported that they were interested in cost-utilization reaches 85%. Only 7% of companies believe their GPU effective alternatives to GPU but were not aware of existing alternatives.infrastructure achieves more than 85% utilization during peak periods.This indicates that cost is a key buying factor for inference solutions, and we When asked about current methods employed for managing GPU usage, expect that as most companies have not reached Gen AI production at respondents are employing queue management and job scheduling (67%), scale, the demand for cost-efficient inference compute will grow.multi-instance GPUs (39%), and quotas (34%). Methods of optimizing GPU allocation between users include Open Source solutions (24%), HPC solutions 4The biggest challenges for compute were latency, (27%), and vendor-specific solutions (34%). Another 11% use Excel and 5% followed by access to compute and power have a home-grown solution. Only 1% of respondents do not maximize or optimize their GPU utilization.consumption.Latency, access to compute, and power consumption were consistently 6ranked as the top compute concerns across all company sizes and regions. Open Source AI solutions and model customization More than half of respondents plan to use LLMs (LLama and LLama-like are top priorities, with 96% of companies focused on models) in 2024, followed by embedding models (BERT and family) (26%) in customizing primarily Open Source models.their commercial deployments in 2024. Mitigating compute challenges will Almost all executives (95%) reported that having and using external Open be essential in realizing their aspirations.Source technology solutions is important for their organization.In addition, 96% of companies surveyed are currently or planning to 5Optimizing GPU utilization is a major concern for 2024-customize Open Source models in 2024, with Open Source frameworks 2025, with the majority of GPUs underutilized during having the highest adoption globally. PyTorch was the leading framework for peak times.customizing Open Source models, with 61% of respondents using PyTorch, 43% using TensorFlow, and 16% using Jax. Approximately one-third of 40% of respondents, regardless of company size, are planning to use respondents currently use or plan to use CUDA for model customization. Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.5

DEMOGRAPHYTitle/Position of Surveyed Respondents We surveyed a mix of company sizes, with 20% of respondents working in companies with 500-2000 employees, 25% with 2,000-Director of AI Infrastructure2%10,000 employees, and a majority of 55% skewing to enterprises 1.6%Head of Machine LearningVP Data Science4.4%0.3%with more than 10,000 employees. We included larger companies 3.8%Head of Engineeringdue to our hypothesis that they would have higher AI infrastructure Head of AI0.5%0.4%maturity and thus be best suited to share relevant experiences in the VP Machine Learning4.3%Generative AI space.Head of DevOpsChief Technology Officer2.2%26.6%VP of EngineeringWe talked primarily with AI/ML and technology leadership and team 6.0%Head of AI Infrastructureleads, with job titles such as CTO, Head of AI, VP of Data, or VP of Artificial Intelligence. We also included Directors of Engineering and VP of Artificial IntelligenceHeads of Data Science. Therefore our results primarily represent the VP of AI InfrastructureHead of Data ScienceC-suite and more senior engineers with decision-making power.8.8%9.2%Director of DevOpsDirector of AI/ML/MLOPsSVP of ITWe targeted major economies in North America, Europe, and Asia-0.9%7.8%Head of AI/ML/MLOPsHead of ITPacific. We included a large range of verticals, including manufacturing, 2.4%telecommunications, energy, food, healthcare, legal, and more. SVP of AI/ML/MLOPsVP of IT5.7%2%The largest representations came from Information Technology 1.3%SVP of Engineering3.5%VP of DevOps2.6%1.5%companies, but no vertical surveyed represented more than 8% of the total respondents.Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.6

Company SizeIndustries Represented by Respondents12.50%500-200010.00%20%7.50%5.00%Greater than 10,00054.9%2.50%25.1%2001-10,0000.00%AviationInternetSecurityBio-TechInsuranceLegal/LawChemicalsBrokerageHealthcareAccountingAutomotiveEngineeringManufacturingTransportationFood/BeverageFashion/ApparelPharmaceuticalsBanking/FinancialComputer SoftwareHospitality/TourismComputer HardwareTelecommunicationsMedia/EntertainmentConsumer ElectronicsRetail/Wholesale tradeInformation Technology/ITConsumer Packaged GoodsEnergy/Utilities/Oil and GasCommunications/InformatioHeadquarters of Responding BusinessesGeographic Regions of Headquarters60.00%APAC10.0%40.00%EMEA30.0%20.00%60.0%North America0.00%USAItalySpainJapanFranceCanadaSwedenAustraliaDenmarkGermanySingaporeSouth KoreaUnited KingdomCopyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.7

QUESTIONS AND INSIGHTS  SECTION I  Planning for 2024: Key Drivers of Expanding AI Infrastructure & Challenges in Scaling AI and Compute1) What are your biggest challenges in scaling AI at your 2) Rank your organization’s compute concerns for 2024organization?When asked about their organization’s compute concerns, latency was the top-ranked answer for 28% of respondents, followed by power consumption which was Companies’ biggest challenge in scaling AI for 2024 is compute limitations 21% of respondents’ top-ranked issue. Time delays in getting access to compute (availability and cost); it’s the top-ranked issue for 32% of respondents. The next is also weighing on respondents’ minds; although it was top-ranked for only 14% biggest challenge was infrastructure issues, which was the top challenge for 27% of of respondents, it received 30% of the votes as the second-ranked concern.respondents and second-ranked challenge for 29% of respondents. Respondents felt they lacked automation or did not have the right systems in place for scale.Time delays in getting Rank 1Rank 2Rank 3Rank 4compute accessLatencyCompute limitations14.3% (availability,compute costs)27.8%Throughput17.2%Talent20.8%19.9%Power consumptionLack of executive supportAccuracy0%25%50%75%100%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.8

3) Cloud, On-premise, or Hybrid? What type of AI Infrastructure setup 4) What is your organization’s greatest concern about deploying does your organization currently have for AI compute resources?Generative AI?Respondents are fairly evenly divided between their current infrastructure The biggest concern for deploying Generative AI was moving too fast and missing setup. 33% have compute fully on-premise, 38% are fully cloud, and a little important considerations (e.g. prioritizing the wrong use cases), whereas the less than 29% have hybrid environments of both on-prem and cloud.second most-important concern was moving too slow due to lack of ability to execute, exposing ambiguity amidst leadership. It appears that executives are caught between the desire to move quickly and the danger of costly mistakes. Governance also weighed in the back of respondents’ minds, with upcoming regulations and lack of control over usage and scaling as the next two most-important concerns.HybridOn-premise28.7%Rank 7Rank 1Rank 2Rank 3Rank 4Rank 5Rank 633.2%Moving too fast and missing important considerationsMoving too slow due to lack of ability to executeUpcoming regulations with hard-to-predict consequences  38.1%Financial cost of computeIn the cloudNegative customer experiencesPower consumption of computeLack of control over usage and scaling0%25%50%75%100%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.9

5) In 2024, what are your plans for expanding your AI compute 6) What are your organization’s biggest concerns about cloud infrastructure?compute?96% of companies surveyed plan to expand their AI Infrastructure in 2024. With 60% planning to expand AI infrastructure with more cloud compute, they will need to Overall, more than 60% plan to use more cloud compute, and 40% of plan to face challenges regarding cost. Wastage / idle costs were executives’ biggest concern respondents are planning to buy more GPU machines on-premise in 2024. with cloud compute, followed by the expensive cost of compute power consumption.40% plan to use orchestration technology to maximize existing compute resources. Respondents from companies of all sizes are planning to use Ranked 1Ranked 2Ranked 3Ranked 4Ranked 5Ranked 6Ranked 7orchestration technology to get more from existing resources. Wastage / Idle costsExpensive cost of 500-2000 employees2001-10,000 employees10,000+ employeescompute power consumption800AvailabilityInability to monitor, manage and control 600overall costsData security and privacy400Expensive cost to rent or purchase computeEnvironmental 200sustainability0%25%50%75%100%0Buy more GPU Use more Use orchestration No plans to add more / usemachines on-premisecloud computetechnology to maximize  what we already have existing compute resources  Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.10

7) What are the key drivers and considerations in your 2024 plans for 8) Estimate your current allocation of existing GPU resources (i.e. expanding your AI compute infrastructure?non-idle GPUs) during peak periods.Respondents reported that flexibility and speed are the top drivers, with 65% and 55% citing When asked about peak periods for GPU usage, 15% of respondents report that fewer these factors (respectively) when expanding AI infrastructure. This supersedes security and than 50% of available GPUs are in use. 53% believe 51-70% of GPU resources are utilized, even budget, suggesting that respondents may be willing to pay a premium for infrastructure and 25% believe their GPU utilization reaches 85%. Only 7% of companies believe options that are more extensible and facilitate AI/ML output, even if it means overspending.their GPU infrastructure achieves more than 85% utilization during peak periods.Most respondents (78%) are using more than 50% of their total allocation of existing GPU resources during peak periods, indicating the need to better manage 80%their existing compute and/or expand their compute with alternatives.60%86-100%50% or less6.5%40%14.7%71-85%25.4%20%0%FlexibilitySpeedSecurityPower consumptionBudget53.4%51-70%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.11

9) How is your company planning to address GPU scarcity in 2024?10) In 2024, what LLM models do you plan to use in your commercial deployments?To address GPU scarcity, approximately 52% of respondents reported actively looking for cost-effective alternatives to GPUs for inference as compared to 27% for training in 2024, More than half of respondents plan to use LLMs (LLama and LLama-like models) in signaling a significant shift in AI hardware usage. One-fifth of respondents (20%) reported 2024, followed by embedding models (BERT and family) (26%) in their commercial that they were interested in cost-effective alternatives to GPU, but were not aware of existing deployments in 2024. This indicates that inference workloads are expected to grow alternatives. Cost appears to be a key driver of buying decisions for inference solutions.substantially - more than half of respondents plan to use LLMs in production. Notably, only 15% reported plans to use diffusion models and only 7% had plans to use multi-modal models. Why might this be? One potential explanation is that tech leaders are leveraging approaches such as model chaining to enable the 2.1%use of multiple models in production. Another potential reason could be that when thinking about LLMs, tech leaders are thinking about multimodal.19.6%In future research, we will delve into tech leaders’ perceptions, plans, and use of ML 26.7%Interested in cost models in production.effective alternatives to GPU but not aware of existing alternatives500-2000 employees2001-10,000 employeesGreater than 10,000 employees51.6%Actively looking for cost effective alternatives to GPUs for inferenceDiffusion modelsMulti-modal models0200400600Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.12

  SECTION II  Open Source Demand & Model Customization Plans1) How important is it for your organization’s external technology 2) How is your company planning/what is your company currently solutions to be Open Source?using to customize your Open Source models in 2024?Almost all executives (95%) reported that having Open Source external technology 96% of companies surveyed are currently or planning to customize models in 2024, solutions is at least somewhat important for their organization, with 26% deeming it very with Open Source frameworks having the highest adoption globally. Across survey important or critical.responses, PyTorch is the leading framework for customizing Open Source models, with 61% of respondents using PyTorch, 43% using TensorFlow, and 16% using Jax. Approximately one-third of respondents currently use or plan to use CUDA for model customization. Only 4% do not currently or plan to customize models in 2024.Not importantCriticalPyTorch and TensorFlow had significant market share in APAC, whereas CUDA adoption 2.7%5.1%is generally equal across the regions, and Jax the most popular in North America.Very importantAPACEMEANorth America22.2%800Somewhat 44.4%important60025.6%400RespondentsImportant2000CUDAPyTorchTensorflowJaxNot customizing open source modelsCopyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.13

3) How satisfied are you with your company’s current solutions to 4) What types of solutions does your organization currently lack in customize Open Source models? (e.g. PyTorch, CUDA)your AI/ML tech stack?Most respondents use Open Source frameworks for model customization and were Tech leaders and executives are dealing with issues with scheduling and job management satisfied with their current solutions to customize Open Source models. More than (63%), model training solutions (52%), and model serving (36%). To effectively deal 78% of respondents are satisfied or very satisfied with their current solution, indicating with these current issues while driving success in their plans for 2024, they will need to that Open Source frameworks are providing respondents with what they need.carefully manage their infrastructure expansion while planning for higher demand for compute – these are decisions that can not be easily changed and are costly if wrong. With ambitious plans to use LLMs in production and to address GPU scarcity with alternatives for inference in the future, executives are making tough decisions that Very dissatisfied1.0%require balancing their current challenges with their readiness for future plans.Dissatisfied5.6%Very satisfiedScheduling remains a big pain point in AI stacks. NeutralModel serving, which refers to hosting ML models and enabling access to model 25.0%15.0%functionalities through APIs, is a core component of building applications that integrate AI (e.g. for AI-driven applications). Approximately one-third of respondents currently lack model serving solutions. Due to Generative AI models requiring highly performant inference workloads, we expect the need for model serving solutions to grow.53.4%Scheduling and jobmanagementModel training solutionsSatisfiedModel serving solutionsPipeline workflow buildingCompute utilization andmonitoring (orchestration)Real time data responsiveness0%20%40%60%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.14

5) Do you see the value in having compute and scheduling   SECTION III  functionality as part of an AI/ ML platform or as a stand-alone point Job Schedulingsolution?Almost 75% of respondents see value in having compute and scheduling as part of an 1) How is job scheduling managed at your organization (queues, job end-to-end platform. (74%). Compute is a fundamental part of such a platform, enabling prioritization, etc.)?fast and efficient model development and deployment. Coupling compute access with scheduling capabilities can be low-hanging fruit as a catalyst for AI/ML development.Approximately half of respondents (47%) reported that job scheduling was managed by DevOps and ML Engineers, and only 27% of companies offer users the ability to self-serve, indicating a significant opportunity for companies to improve their AI/ML infrastructure to streamline development.Stand-alone point solution50025.7%40074.3%300MLOps Platform2001000It is managed by Users can prioritize their It is completely We do not have a DevOps and own jobs for the managed by DevOpsscheduling solutionML Engineersresources they can access and can self serve Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.15

2) Which computing resource scheduling / job management tool do 3) What are you able to do with the scheduling tool you currently you currently use as part of your AI/ML tech stack?have?65% of companies surveyed use vendor-specific solutions or cloud solution providers More than half of respondents (56%) can do quota management, followed by 25% use Slurm or another Open 42% who have the capability to manage Dynamic MiG / GPU partioning for managing and scheduling their AI/ML jobs. only 9% use Kubernetes alone, which does not support scheduling.42%) capabilities to optimize GPU utilization. Only 19% of respondents are able Source tool, and (to view and manage jobs within queues, potentially resulting in inefficiency. KubernetesQuota managementSlurmVendor-specific solutionNode poolsCloud providersUser self-serveOther open source tool01002003004000%20%40%60%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.16

4) Are you satisfied with the computing resource scheduling / job 5) If you chose Neutral, Somewhat Dissatisfied, or Dissatisfied management tool you’ve chosen?in the previous question, what are the main reasons for your dissatisfaction?61% of respondents are either dissatisfied, somewhat dissatisfied, or partially satisfied 12% reporting they are neutral, with the scheduling tool they have chosen, with another The main drivers of pain points were that the tool cannot do enough to optimize indicating room for improvement. 53%), followed by the tool is not easy for developers or data scientists GPU usage (47%). It is also notable that approximately 25% reported lack of control to use (and friction with existing AI/ML stacks as reasons for dissatisfaction.Dissatisfied1%Given these results, we recommend investment in a scheduling tool that offers Somewhat Dissatisfied5%Satisfiedoptimization of GPU usage, is easy to use, and works well with other pieces of AI/ML Neutral11.9%infrastructure.26.1%The tool cannot do enough tooptimize GPU usage56.0%The tool creates friction with my existing AI/ML tech stackSomewhat SatisfiedThe tool does not provideenough controlNot applicable0%20%40%60%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.17

6) How would your organization’s AI team productivity be impacted/  SECTION IV  increased if real-time compute could be self-served and easily Optimizing Compute Utilizationaccessed by anyone who needed it in a seamless and cost-controlled way?1) How does your organization currently maximize utilization of GPU 93% reported that their organizations’ AI team productivity would increase if usage?real-time compute could be self-served easily by anyone who needed it.We were impressed to see the sophistication of how companies are managing their compute infrastructure. For respondents, the top 3 methods being 51% or more increaseNo impactemployed to maximize GPU utilization are queue management and job 1.1%scheduling (67%), multi-instance GPUs (39%), and quotas (34%).7%21-50% increase17.2%5-10% increase26.3%Quotas48.4%11-20% increaseNone of the above0%20%40%60%80%Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.18

2) What tool do you use to optimize GPU allocation between users?  SECTION V  Methods of optimizing GPU allocation between users include Open Source Monitoring Compute24%), HPC solutions (27%), and vendor-specific solutions (34%). Another solutions (11% use Excel and 5% have a home-grown solution. Only 1% of respondents are doing nothing to maximize or optimize their GPU utilization.1) What tool does your organization use to monitor GPU cluster utilization?For monitoring GPU cluster utilization, using GCP-GPU utilization metrics 36% tops the Nothing currently0.6%list, followed by NVIDIA AI Enterprise (30%). IBM LSF and Kubernetes were selected by 15% and 13% of respondents, respectively.Home-grown4.5%Open sourceExcel10.5%24%Kubernetes monitoring toolsGCP-GPU utilization metrics33.8%NVIDIA AI EnterpriseVendor-specific solution26.6%IBM LSFHPC solutionsAltair PBS ProOther vendor-specific HPC solution0100200300400Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.19

CONCLUSIONAs we’ve seen from these global survey results, while most organizations are planning organization. Accordingly, we observed that Open Source AI frameworks are preferred for to expand their AI infrastructure, executives and tech leaders face diverse challenges in model customization – with PyTorch leading TensorFlow and Jax in production. their current workloads. Their ambitious plans for the future signal a need for highly performant, cost-effective alternatives to GPUs and seamless, end-to-end AI/ML For successful deployment of AI at scale, taking a holistic view of AI workloads will be platforms. essential. We observed a lack of scheduling tools that support the ability to view and manage jobs within queues. While current gaps in AI tech stacks include training, model GPU utilization is a major concern for 2024, with the majority of respondents saying they serving is top of mind. Executives and tech leaders will need to balance solving their are not maximizing their GPUs at peak times. Nearly all companies we surveyed reported current pain points while executing on their future plans. that AI team productivity would increase if real-time compute could be self-served easily by anyone who needed it. Time delays in getting compute access, and high latency can break product experiences. We recommend that AI leaders consider the multiple factors that impact their TCO, such Tech leaders and executives have ambitious plans for LLMs -- and mitigating compute as: compute, scheduling, and power-efficient inference with low latency when planning for challenges will be essential in realizing their aspirations. More than half plan to use LLMs Gen AI business adoption. Only then can they be confident in accurately predicting and in commercial deployments and more than half are looking for cost-effective alternatives forecasting the TCO for Gen AI in their organization. to GPUs for inference. We believe that highly performant inference workloads with low latency and efficient power consumption will be crucial to reducing the TCO of Generative We hope that the insights in this report have shed light into the experiences of leaders AI deploymentsmaking decisions for today and in the future, and that these insights will empower you to find solutions that bring AI into production in a way that’s aligned with your organization’s Alongside this shift, executives and tech leaders value Open Source solutions. Nearly all vision.reported that having Open Source solutions was at least somewhat important for their Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.20

NEXT STEPSFrom AI/ML model development to training, and inference, ClearML’s Dynamic Scheduling, Orchestration, and MiG helps you maintain optimal GPU/compute utilization for any cluster size and scale. To request a demo of ClearML, please visit https://clear.ml/demo.  FuriosaAI’s highly efficient inference-focused products run cutting-edge distributed inference with low TCO. To request a demo of FuriosaAI’s 1st-gen AI chip WARBOY for Computer Vision, please visit https://www.furiosa.ai/getstarted. For more information about FuriosaAI’s 2nd-gen AI chip with High Bandwidth Memory 3 (HBM3), which provides H100-level performance to power ChatGPT-scale models, visit https://www.furiosa.ai/comingsoon. © Copyright 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved.  All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.21

About AIIAThe AI Infrastructure Alliance is dedicated to bringing together the essential building blocks for the Artificial Intelligence applications of today and tomorrow. The Alliance and its members bring striking clarity to this quickly developing field by highlighting the strongest platforms and showing how different components of a complete enterprise machine-learning stack can and should interoperate. They deliver essential reports and research, virtual events packed with fantastic speakers, and visual graphics that make sense of an ever-changing landscape. To learn more, visit https://ai-infrastructure.org/.About FuriosaAIFuriosaAI is a semiconductor company designing high-performance data center AI accelerators with vastly improved power efficiency. Through our innovative architecture and products, we strive to unlock the transformative potential of AI and make its benefits accessible to all. Our first generation chip WARBOY, which runs computer vision applications for data centers and enterprise customers, is available now and our second generation chip for LLM and multimodal deployment will launch later this year. To learn more, visit the company’s website at: https://www.furiosa.ai/. About ClearMLAs the leading Open Source, end-to-end solution for unleashing AI in the enterprise, ClearML is used by more than 1,600 enterprise customers to develop a highly repeatable process for their end-to-end AI model lifecycle, from product feature exploration to model deployment and monitoring in production. Use all of our modules for a complete ecosystem or plug in and play with the tools you have. ClearML is an NVIDIA DGX-ready Software Partner and is trusted by more than 250,000 forward-thinking Data Scientists, Data Engineers, ML Engineers, DevOps, Product Managers and business unit decision makers at leading Fortune 500 companies, enterprises, academia, and innovative start-ups worldwide. To learn more, visit the company’s website at https://clear.ml.Copyright © 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. | All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.© Copyright 2024 by ClearML. All rights reserved. All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.